UNIVERSITY OF MINES AND
TECHNOLOGY
TARKWA

FORMAT FOR
THE PRESENTATION OF
THESES AND PROJECT REPORTS

MAY 2011

Compiled by
Prof. Newton Amegbey

(Committee Chairman)
Prof. D. Mireku-Gyimah

(Member)
Prof. K. Dzibodi-Adjimah

(Member)
Dr. Allassan Cobblah

(Member)
Dr. Victor Amoako Temeng

(Member)
Mr. Peter Arroja Eshun

(Secretary)

REVISED BY:
Prof. Raymond Suglo (Committee Chairman)
Prof. Jerry S. Kuma (Member)
Prof. I. A. Adetunde (Member)
Mr. Peter Aroja Eshun (co-opted Member)
Mr. Osman A. Abengo (Secretary)

1

ITRODUCTIO

This format is intended for students who are preparing project reports, dissertations or theses.
The intention is to provide a concise guide covering all aspects of research documents. It does
not, however, aim to provide comprehensive information on detailed stylistic features. There
are in addition usages which are specific to a given branch of engineering. Candidates should
therefore consult their supervisors about the specific requirements of their topic and
discipline.
The word 'thesis' is used in this document for simplicity, but the information given applies to
theses, dissertation and project reports.

2

THE STRUCTURE AD FORM OF THESES, DISSERTATIOS AD PROJECT
REPORTS

This chapter does not aim to provide comprehensive information on all matters relating to
form and structure in thesis writing. For a detailed guide on presentation the candidate is
advised to consult a standard text on the subject.
2.1 The Structure and Form of a Thesis - Preliminaries
The following essential elements of a thesis are presented in the order in which they should
normally appear:
Title and Title page
Candidate's Declaration
Abstract
Dedication (Optional)
Acknowledgements
Table of Contents
List of Figures
List of Tables
List of Symbols (Optional)
Nomenclature (Optional)
Introductory Chapter
Central Chapters
Concluding Chapter
References
Appendices

1

2.1.1 Title and Title Page
A specimen title page is shown in Appendix A. The following information is given on the title
page.
Title
The title should indicate the contents and scope of the thesis in as few words as possible.
Phrases like 'a report on investigations into…' and 'observations on some aspects of …' add
nothing significant to the title and should be avoided. While the title should be as brief as
possible it should be accurate, descriptive and comprehensive, clearly indicating the subject
of the investigation. It is most important that the title of a thesis be an accurate description of
the contents of the work.
The title is best printed in capitals.
Author's name
The full forenames followed by the surname are usually given under the title.
Thesis statement
The following are examples of the correct wording:
Doctor of Philosophy:
‘submitted in fulfilment of the requirement for the award of the degree of Doctor of
Philosophy in …………………………………………………………………………….'
Master of Philosophy:
‘submitted in fulfilment of the requirement for the award of the degree of Master of
Philosophy in ………………………………………………..…..'

Master of Science:
‘submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the award of the degree of Master of
Science in ………………………………………………..…..'
Bachelor of Science:
‘submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the award of the degree of Bachelor of
Science in ………………………………………………………………………….'
Year when the thesis was completed
This lowest line should be no more than 25 mm from the foot of the page, and should include
the place and date of completion of the thesis, e.g. Tarkwa, 2010.
2

2.1.2 Candidate's Declaration
An example of the conventional form of declaration is as follows:
DECLARATIO
I declare that this project work/thesis is my own work. It is being submitted for the degree of
………………………………………………………………. in the University of Mines and
Technology (UMaT), Tarkwa. It has not been submitted for any degree or examination in any
other University.

………………………………………………
(Signature of candidate)
…………… day of ……………………………………….. (year)………………..
This declaration should appear on a separate page and each copy of the thesis should be
individually signed by the candidate.
2.1.3 Abstract
The abstract is a brief information or summary of not more than 250 words for a project
report or master’s thesis and not more than 500 words for a doctorate thesis. It outlines the
objective of the thesis, the research methods and procedure employed, as well as the major
results and conclusions. The abstract should always start with a topic sentence that is a central
statement of the major theme of the thesis.
The abstract is extremely important. It should give as concisely as possible the significant
facts, especially anything new, the main conclusions and any recommendations. The reader
can then decide whether or not he/she is interested in reading further. An abstract should be
written in normal and not telegraphic style.
2.1.4 Dedication
This is a brief, optional statement paying tribute to the writer's spouse, family, or other
associated person. It is typed centrally on a separate page starting on the chapter line and does
not require a heading, e.g.
In memory of my mother
Leticia Aggrey
2.1.5 Acknowledgements
Assistance received in carrying out the work in preparing the thesis should be acknowledged,
although it is not usual to acknowledge routine checking, minor assistance or general advice.
It is, however, usual to acknowledge the assistance of a supervisor, financial assistance,
3

permission to publish, as well as special facilities offered by a company, university or
research institution.
2.1.6 Table of Contents
The contents should be given on separate sheets and follow the plan of the structure of the
thesis (Section 2.1) and the headings in the thesis itself. The contents should only contain the
first three levels of headings in the thesis. It must also include the relevant page numbers.
(A specimen contents page is shown in Appendix B.)
2.1.7 List of Figures
A list of figures follows the contents on a new page, and precedes a list of tables. (A
specimen list of figures is shown in Appendix C.)
2.1.8 List of Tables
A list of tables follows the list of figures on a new page. (A specimen list of tables is shown in
Appendix D.)
2.1.9 List of Symbols
A list detailing the symbols for physical quantities used may be provided when necessary and
may be optional. A specimen list of symbols appears in Appendix E. Symbols vary from
discipline to discipline and candidates should consult their supervisors with regard to the
correct symbols for their field of research.
2.1.10 Nomenclature
Authors should avoid jargons, abbreviations and acronyms which are not in common use in
the field or which have not been defined. If there are acronyms or unusual technical terms,
these should be defined in alphabetical order in a list of nomenclature. In any case, each
symbol or unusual term should be defined when it first occurs in the text.
2.2 Body of the Thesis
In most theses the chapters may readily be divided into three categories: the introductory
chapter or chapters; the central chapters comprising the major report of the study, divided into
logical chapter divisions; and the concluding chapter, which should contain the findings,
conclusions, and recommendations of the thesis.
2.2.1 Introductory Chapter
The first chapter should contain the following items:
•
•
•

Problem Definition/Definition of the Problem/Statement of the Problem;
Objectives of Research;
Methods Used;
4

•

Organisation of Thesis/Report.

2.2.2 Central Chapters
Chapters 2 and 3
Chapter 2 of the thesis should be a résumé of the history and present status of the problem by
means of a literature survey comprising a brief critical review of previous investigations of
this and closely related problems. The contribution of each of these to the topic should be
made clear, together with the fact that the current investigation arises from the inadequacies
of earlier studies or that the current investigation is adopting an existing methodology for a
different situation or that a new approach and direction are being presented.
Chapter 3 should be statement of the source of data, the method of procedure (experimental
techniques) and the treatment of the findings. In a thesis of an experimental nature, a separate
chapter is ordinarily devoted to these topics. In a case study, relevant information about the
project area will constitute this chapter.
The elements of Chapters 2 and 3 may be reversed depending on the topic. For example, for a
case study, the relevant information may be the second chapter of thesis with the third chapter
being dedicated for literature review or experimental procedures.
Other central chapters
It is impossible to give specific directions for organising all the studies and findings, because
of the wide variety of topics investigated, techniques employed, and kinds of data
accumulated. It suffices to say that the chapters of this portion of the thesis constitute the
candidate’s contribution to knowledge. All other portions of the manuscript are subordinate to
what actually has been discovered and is here being made known. The candidate should,
therefore, take great pains to present his/her material in a clear and orderly fashion, in terms
that will be readily understood.
2.2.3 Conclusions and Recommendations
The concluding chapter should be a summary, restating the developments of previous
chapters and showing succinctly the more important findings and conclusions of the whole
study. The author may list unanswered questions that have occurred to him/her but which
require research beyond the limits of the undertaking reported. Recommendations may be
offered for the solution of the problem.
2.3 References and Bibliography
References should be chosen and cited to:
•

indicate the source of the writer's statements;

•

acknowledge another person's work;

•

provide a source of additional information.
5

The relevance of any reference should be carefully considered and the number of references
kept to a necessary minimum. All references appear together at the end of the thesis/project.
The citations must be given in sufficient detail for easy retrieval of the information.
2.3.1 Referencing Systems
There are a number of different referencing systems. The two most commonly used in
scientific literature are the Harvard system and the Numerical system. You should note that
styles for citations vary tremendously from discipline to discipline, and that not all the points
mentioned (e.g. title of paper, or inclusive pagination) may be necessary. In this University,
the Harvard style is adopted.
Harvard system
The references are cited in the text by the author's surname followed by the year of
publication separated by a comma and are listed in alphabetical order by year of publication
in the list of references [e.g. (Cobblah, 1997)]. If a number of articles by the same author are
cited for a given year the letters a, b, c are used to distinguish the articles. In each case fullpage numbers for the articles must be given in the reference list [e.g. (Amegbey, 1990a) and
(Amegbey, 1990b)].
If there are more than three authors, only the first (senior) author's name is given in the text
followed by 'et al.' [e.g. (Temeng et al., 2000)]. The full list of names is given in the reference
list. Note the recommended layout of the reference list.
Specimen text (Harvard system)
At present Ghana produces gold, bauxite, manganese and diamonds for export. Other
minerals that can be exploited to advantage include iron ore, limestone, brown clay, kaoline
and salt (Kesse, 1985). The general trend of gold production from 1880 to 1990 reveals three
gold booms (Mireku-Gyimah and Suglo, 1993). Tsidzi and Adofo (1993) and DzigbodiAdjimah (1996) have further discussed the visual and chemical impacts of mining in Ghana.
REFERECES
Dzibodi-Adjimah, K. (1996), “Environmental Concerns of Ghana’s Gold Boom: Past, Present
and Future”, Ghana Mining Journal, Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 21 – 26.
Kesse, G. O. (1985), The Mineral and Rock Resources of Ghana, A. A. Balkema Publishers,
Rotterdam, 610 pp.
Mireku-Gyimah, D. and Suglo, R. S. (1993), “The State of Gold Mining in Ghana”, Trans.
Instn. Min. Metall. (Sec. A: Mining Industry), Vol. 102, pp. A59 – A67.
Tsidzi, K. E. N. and Adofo, R. A. (1993), “Some Environmental Aspects of Mining and
Related Activities in Ghana”, Proceedings of the 1ational Seminar on Current
Developments in the Minerals Industry of Ghana. Tsidzi, K. E. N. (ed.), IMME, KNUST,
Kumasi, Ghana, pp. 126 – 131.
6

1umerical system
The references are numbered in ascending order in the text, and are listed in that order in the
list of references. In the text itself, the numerals are typed slightly above the list of the text.
Specimen text (1umerical system)
At present Ghana produces gold, bauxite, manganese and diamonds for export. Other
minerals that can be exploited to advantage include iron ore, limestone, brown clay, kaoline
and salt (Kesse (1)). Mireku-Gyimah and Suglo(2) have reviewed the general trend of gold
production from 1880 to 1990 and have defined three gold booms in the past. Tsidzi and
Adofo(3) and Dzigbodi-Adjimah(4) have discussed the visual and chemical impacts of mining
in Ghana.
REFERECES
1.

Kesse, G. O., The Mineral and Rock Resources of Ghana, A. A. Balkema Publishers,
Rotterdam, 1985, 610pp.

2.

Mireku-Gyimah, D. and Suglo, R. S., “The State of Gold Mining in Ghana”, Trans. Inst.
Min. Metall. (Sec. A: Mining Industry), Vol. 102, 1993, pp. A59 – A67.

3.

Tsidzi, K. E. N. and Adofo, R. A., “Some Environmental Aspects of Mining and
Related Activities in Ghana”, in Proceedings of the 1ational Seminar on Current
Developments in the Minerals Industry of Ghana. Tsidzi, K. E. N. (ed.), IMME,
KNUST, Kumasi, Ghana, 1993, pp. 126 – 131.

4.

Dzigbodi-Adjimah, K., “Environmental Concerns of Ghana’s Gold Boom: Past, Present
and Future”, Ghana Mining Journal, Vol. 2, No. 1, 1996, pp. 21 – 26.

2.3.2 Citations
The order in which items in the references are listed is as follows:
Books/Thesis/Project Reports/Lecture 1otes
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Authors’ names;
Year of reference;
Title of book, thesis, project report or lecture notes (in italics);
Name of publisher/type of thesis/project report/lecture notes and name of School
Location of publisher (in the case of a book);
Edition numbers of book or report number of report;
Year of reference (numerical system);
Inclusive page numbers of book, thesis, project report, or lecture notes.

Examples of books:
Kesse, G. O. (1985), The Mineral and Rock Resources of Ghana, A. A. Balkema Publishers,
7

Rotterdam, 610 pp.
Kuma, J. S., Younger, P. L. and Bowell, R. J. (2002), “Hydrogeological Framework for
Assessing the Possible Environmental Impact of Large-Scale Gold Mines”, Mine Water
Hydrogeology and Geochemistry, The Geological Society Special Publications 198,
Younger, P. L. and Robins, N. S. (eds.), pp. 121 – 136.
Sweigard, R. J. (1992), “Materials Handling: Loading and Haulage”, In Chap. 9.3 of SME
Mining Engineering Handbook, Hartman, H. L. (ed.), 2nd edition, Vol. 1, SME, Port
City Press, Inc., pp. 761 – 782.
Examples of thesis, project reports or lecture notes:
Eshun, P. A. (1998), “Accounting for Risks in Economic Evaluation of Gold Mining Projects
in Ghana”, Unpublished BSc Project Report, University of Mines and Technology,
Tarkwa, 83pp.
Adetunde, I. A. (2010), “Experimental Design”, Unpublished BSc Lecture 1otes, University
of Mines and Technology, Tarkwa, 72pp.
Journal/Bulletin
•
•
•
•
•
•

Authors’ names;
Year of reference;
Title of article;
1ame of journal, bulletin (in italics);
Volume number, issue number, month (abbreviated);
Inclusive page numbers of journal/bulletin.

Examples of a journal/bulletin/article:
Dzigbodi-Adjimah, K. (1996), “Environmental Concerns of Ghana’s Gold Boom: Past,
Present and Future”, Ghana Mining Journal, Vol. 2, No. 1, pp. 21 – 26. .
Kuma, J. S. and Younger, P. L. (2004), “Water quality trends in the Tarkwa gold mining
district, Ghana”, Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment 63, pp. 119 – 132.
Suglo, R. S., Frimpong, S. and Muirhead, I. R. (2003), “System Drivers in the Performance of
Auxiliary Ventilation Systems”, CIM Bulletin, Vol. 96, No. 1069, pp. 110 – 115.
Mireku-Gyimah, D. and Suglo, R. S. (1993), “The State of Gold Mining in Ghana”, Trans.
Inst. Min. Metall. (Sec. A: Mining Industry), Vol. 102, pp. A59 – A67.
Conference/Seminar Proceedings/Transactions
•
•
•
•

Authors’ names;
Year of reference;
Title of article;
Name of conference/transactions or proceedings;
8

•
•
•

Name of editor;
Location of conference;
Inclusive page numbers of journal.

Examples of conference proceedings/transactions:
Eshun, P. A. and Mireku-Gyimah, D. (2002), "Small Scale Mining in the Tarkwa District: A
Review of its Impacts", SWEMP 2002, 7th International Symposium on Environmental
Issues and Waste Management in Energy and Mineral Production, Sardinia, Italy, pp. 877
– 884.
Tsidzi, K. E. N. and Adofo, R. A. (1993), “Some Environmental Aspects of Mining and
Related Activities in Ghana”, Proceedings of the 1ational Seminar on Current
Developments in the Minerals Industry of Ghana. Tsidzi, K. E. N. (ed), IMME, KNUST,
Kumasi, Ghana, pp. 126 – 131.
Information from Webpages/Committee Reports/Reports from Organisations
Committee reports and information from webpages do not usually have a specific author but
many authors who are often unknown. Thus these are referenced as “Anon.” for
“Anonymous”. The Referencing format for such sources is:
• Authors’ names (if known) or “Anon.” or “Anon” (if author(s) is/are unknown);
• Year of reference;
• Title of article;
• Name of webpage address (University of Mines and Technology, Tarkwa webpage);
• Webpage address;
• Date on which the information on the webpage was accessed.
Examples of a webpage information/Committee Reports/Reports from Organisations:
Anon. (1993), Caterpillar Performance Handbook, 24th ed., Caterpillar Inc., Peoria, USA, pp.
4-107 - 4-129.
Anon. (2007), “The Global Mining Initiative”, www.globalmining.com. Accessed: November
11, 2007.
Hutson, S. S., Barber, N. L., Kenny, J. F., Linsey, K. S., Lumia, D. S., Maupin, M. A. (2004),
Estimated use of water in the United States in 2000. US Geol Surv Cir 1268,
www.pubs.usgs.gov/circ/2004/circ1268. Accessed: December 19, 2005.
Meaning of page referencing:
Examples:
1. Kesse, G. O., The Mineral and Rock Resources of Ghana, A. A. Balkema Publishers,
Rotterdam, 1985, 610pp.
Meaning: The “610pp.” means that the number of pages in the book are 610 and that the
9

references were taken from various sections of the entire book. Occasionally, “610p.” could
be used in place of the “610pp.”
2. Kuma, J. S. and Younger, P. L. (2004), “Water quality trends in the Tarkwa gold mining
district, Ghana”, Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment 63, pp. 119 – 132.
Meaning: The “pp. 119 - 132” means that the references were taken from pages 119 to 132 of
the Bulletin of Engineering Geology and the Environment 63.
2.3.3 Punctuation Guidelines
The following guidelines are noteworthy:
•
•
•
•

A comma is inserted after author's surname, but full stops are inserted after author's
initial(s);
A comma separates each item of the reference;
The name title of article, report, thesis or dissertation, are put in inverted commas;
The following are italicised to show the source of information:
• The title of a book;
• The type of thesis/project report or dissertation/lecture notes;
• 1ame of Journal;
• 1ame of conference, transactions or proceedings.

2.3.4 Bibliography
Any supplementary literature not directly referred to in the text, but considered to be relevant
and of interest, may be put after the references in a bibliography. In this University, however,
bibliography is not to be used.
2.4 Appendices
Appendices are convenient places for recording complicated mathematical or other formulae,
descriptions of experiments or apparatus, and any other specialised or lengthy material such
as computer programme listings, copies of spectra or other instrumental outputs that would
otherwise detract from the readability of the text. The reader should be able to study or refer
to these later, and only if he/she wishes to do so, after he/she has read the main work.
Appendices must be numbered or lettered consecutively to facilitate their location in the text.
Each appendix must start on a new page. The appendices should be placed immediately after
the list of references.
3

HEADIGS AD UMBERIG

The arrangement of headings of various levels (hierarchical positions) reflects the
organisation of the contents of the thesis.
The levels of headings may be indicated by typeface and format alone. For example, the
heading 'EVIROMETAL ECOOMICS' is recognisably of higher level than
'Environmental Economics'.
10

The decimal numbering of such headings further clarifies the importance, sequence and
interrelation of the portions of text under each heading. Thus the headings '2
EVIROMETAL ECOOMICS' and '2.3 Environmental Economics' are even more
informative than the corresponding unnumbered headings. Numbering also facilitates crossreferencing within the text.
3.1 Rules of umbering
The following are the rules of numbering:
•

Arabic numerals should be used throughout;

•

First level headings (usually chapter headings of a thesis are numbered continuously
beginning with 1. In this University, the chapter heading will be centred and written
below the chapter number (see Appendix G). Each new chapter will start on a new
page;

•

Each main division of text (chapter) may be divided into any reasonable number of
sub-divisions, having second level headings which are also continuously numbered.
This method of division and numbering can, in principle, be continuous to any level,
but tends to become clumsy and confusing at the fourth level and beyond;

•

Numbering should thus be confined to the first three levels. Further (unnumbered)
levels of headings may be identified by typeface and format (see Section 3.2);

•

The numbers designating headings of different levels are separated by full stops (the
present document serves as an example). No full stop appears after the last number.

3.2 Typeface and Format
The typeface and format of all headings should reflect their levels, independently of number.
The typographical details of the system of headings will be dictated largely by the printing
system that is used in final production of the thesis. Whatever the typography, it is essential
that the system be logical and that it be applied consistently.
Modern practice favours left-hand justification, rather than centred headings. Note also that
no full stop appears at the end of a heading.
3.3 Examples of Systems of Headings
1

FIRST LEVEL HEADIG

1.1 Second Level Heading
1.1.1 Third Level Heading
Fourth level heading
Fifth level heading: Which leads into the text on the same line.
11

4

STYLE AD PUCTUATIO

4.1 Text Structure
A good thesis should be comprehensive and precise. To be concise at the same time the writer
must watch his/her presentation carefully. He/she should read through his/her draft critically
and eliminate unnecessary material.
The following are some of the techniques that will help:
•
•
•
•
•

Break down complex statements into lists;
Use the active voice where appropriate;
Do not use pompous words or jargons where simpler words are equally effective;
Avoid empty phrases such as 'it is interesting to note that…';
Avoid unnecessary words, e.g. 'the precipitate was found to be in a wet condition’;
which means simply that 'the precipitate was wet’.

4.1.1 Word Choice
The argument against using personal pronouns in theses is that the subject matter is the
important thing and not the author. This is basically sound as long as it is not carried to
excess. When, however, it leads to vagueness in phrases like 'it is considered' or to ponderous
writing 'the author is of the opinion', then it is better to use a personal pronoun, e.g. 'I
consider' or 'I think'.
Technical language and jargon
Technical language is a necessary part of scientific writing. The writer must, however, be
certain that his/her audience will understand the language he/she uses. Where there is doubt,
he/she should define his/her terms, either in the text or in a glossary.
For example, 'The hydrostatic loss appears to be responsible for dumping (or weeping) from
sieve places…' is acceptable in a thesis intended for people familiar with distillation terms
and concepts, but the statement becomes a mere jargon where the potential readers may not
be experts in the field.
Jargon is often created by introducing strange and unnecessary new words. For example,
though colonise, oxidise and analyse are acceptable through general usage, blendorise,
insolubilised and solubilisation are not: however frequently they may be used in a chemical
laboratory they are unknown outside it.
4.1.2 Tenses
A guide like this cannot cover the ramifications of the uses of tenses in thesis writing. The
following points may help, however, to avoid the more common errors:
•

Reports of work done are usually written in the past tense (past perfect or past
participle);
12

•

Where universal truths such as natural laws are stated, the present tense is generally
used;

•

Do not change tenses in a sentence unless there is good reason for it. For example, if
we say. 'The balloon rose because the hydrogen inside it was lighter than air', we may
mean that this might apply only under the observed conditions' or we may mean that
the gas used is inherently lighter than air. To make the meaning clear we must mix
tenses within the sentence, e.g. 'the balloon rose because hydrogen is less dense than
air'. But complications arise when tenses are changed without the writer having had a
specific intention in mind.

4.1.3 Sentence Structure
Active and passive voice
Traditionally technical writers have regarded the passive voice as the only acceptable form of
presentation. In modern writing, however, the active voice is used far more often. Phrases like
'Economy justifies the procedure', are preferred to 'the procedure may be justified in the
interest of economy'.
Sentence length
Long sentences with a number of dependent clauses are difficult to follow, particularly if the
subject is complex. Reading tests have shown that sentences with more than 25 words are
generally difficult to comprehend. Unless you are master of the use of the English language,
avoid long sentences.
4.1.4 Paragraphing
Paragraphs are there to help the reader. They do so by breaking up the text into manageable
sections. The following guidelines will assist in organising paragraphs:
•

A paragraph should consist of a central statement supported by a group of details;

•

In technical writing the main statement is usually at or near the beginning. For
arguments of persuasion, however, the central statement is often placed at the end as a
climax to the supporting details;

•

The transition between paragraphs should be smooth, with some form of connecting
link in the text;

•

Long unbroken sections of the text are discouraging to the reader and therefore
paragraphs should not be unduly long. If your writing has many paragraphs exceeding
100 words, you should examine it critically.

4.1.5 Headers and Footers
Headers and Footers are not allowed.
13

4.2 Conventions
4.2.1 Capitals
There is much confusion about the use of capitals and authorities differ considerably. The
modern trend, however, is to use capitals sparingly. The following are some general
guidelines:
•
•

The first word in a sentence and in a direct quotation are capitalised; proper nouns are
capitalised and common nouns such as river and company are also capitalized when
they form part of a name e.g. River Amazon.
Common nouns are capitalized when they are used with a number or letter to
designate a specific thing, e.g. Laboratory D.

4.2.2 Acronyms
An acronym is a word formed from the initial letters of a name or by combining initial letters,
or parts of a series of words, e.g. 'radar': RA(dio) D(etecting) A(nd) R(anging). Certain
acronyms like, 'radar' have become dictionary words. In general, however, use acronyms
sparingly and when using them for the first time, spell them out. Where the acronym is not an
accepted dictionary one it should be in capitals e.g. United Nations (UN), University of Mines
and Technology (UMaT) and Random Access Memory (RAM).
4.2.3 Spelling
In a language as complex as English there is no simple set of rules. When in doubt (e.g., when
to use 's' and when 'z') consult the Shorter Oxford English Dictionary which gives the
accepted standard of English spelling (preferred to the American) or the Oxford Dictionary
for Writers and Editors. This dictionary, in addition to guidance on spelling, gives useful
information on punctuation. In this era of information technology one can exploit the
capability of the computer to his/her advantage. In this University, the British English will be
adopted. However, one should be very consistent when the American English is used.
4.2.4 Abbreviations
Use only generally accepted abbreviations and symbols.
4.2.5 Punctuation
There are some 36 chief marks of punctuation. However, many of these are used only in
specialised linguistic contexts and all should be used sparingly. For a concise guide to the use
of the more common punctuation marks see other relevant literature.
4.2.6 Pagination
Pagination should run consecutively through the thesis with all pages in Arabic numerals
except items preceding the introductory chapter. These are numbered with Roman numerals.
The page number should be in the footer and aligned right or centre.
14

5

EXTRA-LIGUISTIC MATERIAL

The customary medium of communication is language. However, in the sciences and
engineering extra-linguistic material such as numbers, symbols, mathematics, tables, graphs
and illustrations of various kinds are frequently used. A cardinal principle for such material is
that it should be used only when it is the most effective means of communication and
understandable to the target audience.
5.1 umerals
The rules for the correct use of numbers are simple and are in the main based on common
sense. The following are noteworthy:
•

In the text use words rather than numerals for integers below ten. Exceptions to this
rule occur in illustrations and tables, or when integers are associated with unit
symbols. For numerals above ten, use whatever provides optimum clarity and good
appearance;

•

Where it is necessary to have decimal fractions these should be expressed in
numerals, e.g. 'The original design required 2.7 times as many components as were
finally used'. Do not use numerals for numbers which are only approximations. Do not
begin a sentence with a numeral. This can lead to confusion and is in any event
displeasing to the eye;

•

Ordinals from 'first' to 'tenth' should be written out. For higher ordinals the author
should once again use his/her discretion;

•

Avoid writing out large and small numbers by using either accepted prefixes or
exponential notation, e.g. 253 x 109 or 0.253 × 1012. Where large numbers must be
written out these should be separated by a small space into groups of three counting
from the left of the decimal sign, e.g. 5 241.2 or 0.52465. They must never be
separated by a comma, point or any other means. For numbers less than unity, a zero
should precede the decimal sign, e.g. 0.352 not .352. When listing numbers - as in a
table - always align them on the decimal sign.

5.2 Mathematics
Mathematics included in a text should form an integral part of the argument and should be
intelligible to the intended readers. Detailed derivations and mathematics beyond the interest
of the majority of readers should be put in an appendix.
Mathematics must be carefully presented using printed symbols. The units and symbols used
should be consistent and follow international practice.
The form of presentation of a mathematical expression should be such that it:
•

brings out clearly the structure of the expression;

15

•

is as simple as possible and

•

introduces minimum disturbance in the appearance of the printed page.

To comply with the last two points, algebraic fractions in the text should make use of a
ax + b
.
solidus and not a horizontal bar. Thus write (ax + b)/(cx + d) and not
ax + d
However, note that careless use of the solidus can lead to ambiguities. Thus a + b/y means
b
a+b
a + and not
.
y
y
Such ambiguities can generally be overcome by the use of parentheses, as in (a + b)/y,
log(a/b) and ( 3 ) x . Be sure that all parentheses and brackets occur in pairs. Exponential
expressions should be set up as e 2π / 3 y or exp(2πx/3y).
However, with more complicated expressions the foregoing rules may violate the conditions
above. It may then be necessary to simplify the expression or set it out on a line all to itself.
For example in chapter five, the first equation should be numbered as:
q=

L(t0 − t3 )
1
1
1
r
+
ln 2 +
2πr1h1 2πk r1 2πr2 h2

(5.1)

And the second equation can also be set out as:
q = L(to- t3)/ΣRt

(5.2)

where, ΣRt = (1/2πr1h1) + (1/2πk)ln(r2r1) + (1/2πr2h2)
L = length
to and t3 = initial time and final time respectively
k = constant
h1 and h2 = initial height and final height respectively
r1 and r2 = initial radius and final radius respectively
Rt = radius of sphere at time t
Vertical alignment of all equal signs should be achieved where practicable. Where the right
hand side of an equation is too long to fit on one line, a break should be made before an
operational sign (e.g. + or –) or at some other logical point, but preferably not within a
bracketed statement. The next line, starting with an operational sign, should then be placed
just to the right of the equal sign. It may, however, not always be possible to avoid breaking a
statement within a bracket. In this case the above rule should be observed as far as possible,
as illustrated in equation (5.3):

[

∆ω = (i / y ) ∫ f (υ1 A1 )φ1φ2 dV + ∫ f (υ1 A2 )φ1φ2 dV
+ ∫ f (υ2 A1 )φ1φ2 dV + ∫ f (υ2 A2 )φ1φ2 dV
16

(5.3)

where, y = f (φ1φ2 + φ1φ2 )dV
Particular care is required in the use of subscripts and superscripts. They should be placed
next to the main symbol and half a space below or above it respectively. Where both are used
2
2
they must line up vertically, i.e. As2 not As . Thus e x should become exp(x2 )
and E1 A becomes E1,A. Periods are generally omitted in abbreviations, e.g. Tmax not Tmax.
Standard symbols should be used wherever possible and the recognised literature in the field
consulted for references to these.

5.3 SI Units
See Appendix F for a list of SI units. The magnitude of any physical quantity must always be
stated as the product of a pure number and an SI unit (Physical quantity = number x unit). The
following rules should be applied in the use of symbols with SI units.
1. Leave a space between the numerical value and the unit (80 cm);
2. Do not use a full stop after a symbol unless it comes at the end of a sentence;
3. Never add s to a symbol: cm = centimetre or centimeters;
4. Do not leave a space between a prefix and a symbol: milli-second = ms;
5. Leave a space between the symbols when two or more symbols are combined to indicate a
derived unit: metres per second = m s-1 (or m/s). Acceleration is indicated as m/s2 (not as
m/s/s);
6. Do not leave a space between the degree sign and the letter C but leave a space between
the degree sign and the preceding numeral: 20 oC instead of 20oC or 20o C;
7. Symbols for physical quantities are printed in italics. Symbols for units are printed in
Roman type. If, on a graph, potential difference (V) measured in volts (V) is to be plotted
against current (I) in milliamps (mA), the axes should be labelled: either V/V and I/mA or
V in volts and I in milliamps.
8. Symbols for vector quantities are printed in bold face italic type (e.g. F for force).

5.4 Tables
Tables are best used when a number of numerical values are to be compared or contrasted.
They should be used only where data cannot be clearly presented in graphical form. For
example, discrete data sets can frequently be compared more effectively by using a bar chart
than table.
In one sense a table is a form of graphical presentation. As such it should be kept simple and
clear. Only relevant information of conclusions should be included. There is no need to put in
all intermediate steps or results – they only cloud the main issues.
17

Tables can be arranged either horizontally or vertically. Horizontal tables are those which can
be read when a page is in the normal position. Clearly they are the most convenient to read.
Where possible they should be arranged to fit into a single page of the document. Vertical
tables are used where their size is such that they cannot be fitted into the width of the printed
page.
Each table should have a heading and be numbered with Arabic numerals. Tables in theses
should be numbered as follows: first by the number of the main text division (chapter) in
which they occur, and secondly, by Arabic numerals running consecutively through that text
division. The two numbers are separated by a full stop. Thus, the first table in Chapter 2 is
Table 2.1, the second table in Chapter 2 is Table 2.2, etc. the same principle holds for
lettered appendices, but the full stop is omitted. Thus the third table in Appendix E is Table
E3. Tables should be referred to in the text by means of the table number.
The columns in a table should be arranged for easy comparison, related information being
brought together. Each column should carry a brief heading and include consistent units
where relevant. The same symbols, units, and abbreviations should be used in the text. The
title is placed on top of the table and may be in title case format. Table 5.1 illustrates some of
these rules.
In column headings avoid using expressions like x 10-3 m, as these are ambiguous. It is not
clear whether the figures in the column have already been multiplied by 10-3 or must be
multiplied by 10-3. Rather use the recognised metric prefixes, e.g. ‘mm’. Where this is not
possible, make sure the heading is unambiguous even if it appears clumsy.
For example, use ‘Capital cost R millions’ rather than ‘× 106 = Capital cost in R’

Table 2.4 Summary of Taxes, Royalties and Allowances
Item
Royalty
Income Tax
Additional Profit Tax
Capital Allowance: First year
Subsequent years
Investment Allowance
(Source: Anon, 1986)

Rate (%)
3-6
35
25
75
50
5

5.5 Illustrations
All illustrations (graphs, photographic plates, drawings and diagrams) are referred to as
Figures (or Figs.). Each has a number and a descriptive title which should be placed below
the illustration. Numbering follows the same principles as those for tables (see Section 5.3).
Thus, the first figure in Chapter 2 is Figure 2.1 (or Fig. 2.1), the second Figure 2.2 (or Fig.
2.2), etc. The third figure in Appendix E is Figure E3 (of Fig. E3). One should be consistent
when using Figure or Fig.

18

5.5.1 Graphs
Graphs can take on a number of different forms, e.g. bar charts, divided circles, pictographs,
or line graphs. The appearance of a graph is its major attribute. It is therefore up to the writer,
in choosing one of these forms, to decide on the impression he/she wishes to convey. As line
graphs are most frequently used in scientific and technical work, attention here will be
directed primarily to this type. Line graphs are mainly used to show the relationship between
a continuously varying independent variable and one or more of its dependent variable.
Wherever possible use should be restricted to this purpose. In preparing graphs for inclusion
in a thesis the following should be borne in mind:
•

The graphs should illustrate clearly the point which the writer wishes to make;

•

The scale chosen should be such that only the relevant parts of the curve are
presented, that is, the grid should not be extended unnecessarily beyond the limits of
the curve to be shown;

•

If it is necessary to suppress the zero this should be clearly shown;

•

The choice of grid size depends on the accuracy required;

•

The scale should be easy to read and be restricted to multiples and submultiples of 10;

•

Units should be clearly stated and written so that they can be easily read;

•

The caption should be brief but self-explanatory and be positioned underneath the
graph; any notes or supporting documents, if necessary should be placed below the
title;

•

To ensure clear reproduction graphs should not be overburdened with detail.

Fig. 5.1 is an example of a good graph.

ro
6

3
20

70

Or

Fig. 5.1 A Graph of Royalty Rate (ro) Versus Operating Ratio (Or)

19

5.5.2 Drawings, Diagrams and Photographs
Line drawings and diagrams are made up of lines, words and a few special symbols. They
must, as far as possible, be kept simple and uncluttered with details; working drawings are
normally not acceptable. Unless they serve to clarify the verbal content of the report, or
express an idea more vividly than words, drawings or diagrams serve no purpose. Only
generally accepted graphic symbols should be used.
The inclusion of photographs may occasionally prove useful and sometimes even necessary.
As a rule photographs should not be used unless they show something unusual or include
features which cannot easily be expressed in words or by means of line drawings. If they are
to be used they should be taken with care. Cluttered backgrounds and views of unrelated
equipment should be avoided. Adequate contrast should be provided, and care taken so that
important details do not fall into shadows or become obscured by the glare of highlights.
Some sort of scale should be included so that the size of the object is shown. Lettering on
prints may be necessary, but care should be taken to ensure that the letters stand out.
Any illustrative material which cannot effectively be reduced to A4 format, but which is
relevant may be included in a pocket on the inside back cover of the thesis.

6

PRODUCTIO OF THE THESIS

6.1 Word Processing
6.1.1 Paper Type
A good quality white bond paper of A4 size should be used and text must be printed on one
side only.
6.1.2 Paper Size
The Paper Size should be A4 (8.27 in × 11.29 in.). When you open a new Microsoft Word
document, the default Paper Size is Letter, ensure that you choose the correct Paper Size (i.e.
A4).
6.1.3 Page Layout
The main body of the text should be set in one and half or double spacing and generous
margins should be allowed. Text should be aligned at a distance from the top and the page.
(A specimen page layout is shown in Appendix G)
The following are suggested dimensions of margins:
Top, bottom and right: 2.54 cm or 1″
Left: 3.05 cm or 1.2″ (to allow for binding)
Gutter: 0 cm or 0″
20

Header: 0.0 cm
Footer: 0.0 cm
All work should be justified to the margin and should not be indented. Avoid right
justification of text as it reduces the readability of the thesis. Use a triple space to indicate a
new paragraph. (See Section 3 for suggested layout and format of the thesis headings and
paragraphs.)
6.1.4 Setting the Copy
Use a clear font type such as Times New Roman, CG Times, Arial, Tahoma or Courier and
italic script or other unusual typefaces should generally be avoided unless they are necessary
to emphasise words. In this case use italics or bold to emphasize. A font size of 12 pt is
recommended. Chapter Number should be given 14 pt and Chapter headings should be given
a font size of 12 pt.

6.2 Illustrations
Illustration forms a very important part of a thesis and should be carefully prepared.
Whatever method of reproduction is to be used for their presentation in the thesis, the
essential requirements are that a table or illustration should be neat, concise, legible and,
above all comprehensible. Originals of photographs are not necessarily required but it is
essential that any reproduction, such as a photocopy, be clear.

6.3 umber of Copies Required
For BSc project reports, two (2) unbound copies should be submitted for examination and for
MSc/MPhil thesis, three (3) unbound copies should be submitted for examination. For the
degree of PhD, five (5) unbound copies of the thesis are required for examination.

6.4 Binding
Two copies of project reports and three copies of theses should be bound (i.e. BSc Projects =
2 bound copies; MSc/MPhil Thesis/PhD Thesis = 3 bound copies)
The covers of bound theses should have the following format:

21

UNIVERSITY OF MINES AND TECHNOLOGY
TARKWA
FACULTY OF MINERAL RESOURCES TECHNOLOGY
MINING ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT

FORMULATION OF AN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN IN GHANA
- A CASE STUDY

BY
PETER ARROJA ESHUN
MPHIL
JUNE 2001

7

EDITIG AD REVISIG

7.1 Checking, Rectifying and Polishing
Editing the first draft is the author’s responsibility; he/she cannot expect his/her supervisor or
any outside person to:
•
•
•
•

determine the accuracy of the information;
clarify ambiguities;
emphasise important issues;
check spelling.

The editing process is essentially one of critical evaluation of the manuscript against the
requirements set by the objectives of the research. The main requirements are those of
content, or orientation to the reader and of accuracy, brevity and clarity in the functional
writing style. The author should evaluate each chapter of his/her thesis and check whether it:
•

has real content;

•

is free from inaccuracies, ambiguities and biases;

•

emphasises important issues and is free from verbosity, irrelevances and unnecessary
detail;

•

can be understood readily;

•

is appropriate to the situation.

Before starting the process of checking, rearranging and polishing, the writer should
preferably leave his/her draft for a few weeks so that he/she can mentally switch to the role of
22

a critical reader.
The editing consists of three operations which should be done separately. These are:
•

The integrity edit;

•

The logical progression edit;

•

The text and language edit.

7.1.1 Integrity Edit
The contents page should be examined and the following points checked:
•
•
•

Are the headings and sub-headings clear description of what is covered?
Do they form a recognisable logical pattern and the numbering system used a
reflection of this pattern?
Are the headings grammatically parallel?

Next the text should be checked page by page for the following:
• Are the headings and numbers identical to those used in the list of contents?
• Are the tables and figures properly numbered and in sequence, and do they have
informative headings and captions?
• Are tables, figures and references correctly cited in the text?
7.1.2 Logical Progression Edit
Each chapter should be skimmed to:
•
•
•

check that the objective is clearly stated and that the concluding section shows
whether or not the objective was achieved;
check that the logical thread is apparent; any jumps or gaps in the progression are
usually an indication of faulty organisation; mark these, but do not correct at this
stage;
check in particular whether sections contain anything which does not belong there.

The conclusions list should arise from the discussion. Structural defects must be corrected
before the text and language edit.
7.1.3 Text and Language Edit
Only when one is satisfied with the basic format of the report should one concentrate on the
structure of the text and the use of language. The text may include nonverbal components
such as graphs and illustrations. These should be evaluated as part of the text.
The criteria for evaluating writing, mentioned before are:
Content criteria
(i)
23

•
•
•
•

Accuracy – sufficient for the needs of the reader;
Brevity – leaving out irrelevancies and at the same time covering the essential
adequately;
Clarity – avoiding vagueness and ambiguity;
Emphasis – drawing attention to significant information.
Tonal or attitude criteria

(ii)
•
•
•
•

Appropriateness to the situation;
Concern for the needs of the reader;
Serious treatment of the subject matter;
Authoritative without being writer-centered.

The specific aspect of language usage discussed in Section 4 should be consulted.

7.2 Graphic Material
Essentially the same criteria used in the language edit, viz accuracy, brevity, clarity and
emphasis can be applied to graphic communications. One of the main reasons for using
graphics is their ability to give an overall view and show relationships. Any graphic material
which fails in these important areas probably does not justify the extra effort of using it.

7.3 Validity of Data in Time and Space
Most theses are prepared for consideration within a short time. However, once accepted, a
thesis becomes part of the body of scientific literature. Writers should therefore draw
attention to information that is only valid for a short time. Cost data are also subject to
relevant variation by place and in time, and monetary exchange rates and other relevant
factors may have to be specified to make matters clear.

7.4 The External Viewpoint
The author may feel himself to be objective. Usually he/she, is not – at least, not to the extent
required for a good manuscript. Therefore an external readers viewpoint is needed. This can
be provided by the supervisor or critical colleague who does not have to be an expert in the
subject of the manuscript, but who must be able to place himself/herself in the position of the
intended audience. He/she should be skilled in recognising the errors authors make and
should annotate the manuscript accordingly and, in addition, suggest ways of improvement.
The best manuscripts are produced by co-operative interaction of authors, supervisors and
independent editor.

7.5 Rewriting
Of all tasks, rewriting a text is the most unpopular, yet if we wish to develop a clear style it is
usually essential. Editing tends to concentrate on the correction of errors rather than elegance
of diction. Rewriting all or substantial part of the text is usually the only way of getting an
elegant well-balanced text.
24

APPEDIX A
SPECIME TITLE PAGE

UNIVERSITY OF MINES AND TECHNOLOGY
TARKWA
FACULTY OF MINERAL RESOURCES TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING

A THESIS REPORT ENTITLED

FORMULATION OF AN
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN IN GHANA
- A CASE STUDY

BY
PETER ARROJA ESHUN

SUBMITTED IN FULFILLMENT OF THE REQUIREMENT FOR THE AWARD OF
THE DEGREE OF MASTER OF PHILOSOPHY IN MINING ENGINEERING

THESIS SUPERVISOR

""""""""""""""""""
PROF. D. MIREKU-GYIMAH

TARKWA, GHANA
JUNE 2001

25

APPEDIX B
SPECIME COTETS OF THESIS PAGES
TABLE OF COTETS
Contents

Page

DECLARATIO
ABSTRACT
ACKOWLEDGEMETS
TABLE OF COTETS
LIST OF FIGURES
LIST OF TABLES

i
ii
iii
iv
vii
viii

CHAPTER 1 ITRODUCTIO

1

1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5

Statement of Problem
Objectives of Thesis
Methodology and Scope of Study
Facilities Employed
Report Organisation

1
1
3
4
4

CHAPTER 2 LITERATURE REVIEW

5

2.1

Impact of Industrial Activities on the Environment
2.1.1 Air Pollution
2.1.2 Water Pollution
2.1.3 Noise Pollution
2.1.4 Soil Degradation
2.1.5 Waste Management and Disposal
2.1.6 Flora and Fauna Destruction
2.1.7 Social Impacts
Environmental Planning and Environmental Management
Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) in Ghana
2.3.1. EIA Procedures and Project Registration in Ghana
2.2.3 Environmental Audit
2.2.3 Environmental Reports

5
5
13
20
24
25
30
33
35
36
36
47
48

CHAPTER 3 PHYSICAL EVIROMET, FACILITIES
AD OPERATIOS OF BOST DEPOTS

49

2.2
2.3

3.1

3.2

The Accra Plains Depot
3.1.1 Physical Environment
3.1.2 Facilities and Operations
The Mami Water Depot
3.2.1 Physical Environment
3.2.2 Facilities and Operations
.

49
49
51
51
51
53
.
26

3.6

3.7

The Buipe Depot
3.6.1 Physical Environment
3.6.2 Facilities and Operations
The Bolgatanga Depot
3.7.1 Physical Environment
3.7.2 Facilities and Operations

62
62
64
64
64
66

CHAPTER 4 IDETIFICATIO OF POTETIAL
EVIROMETAL IMPACTS

67

4.1
4.2
.
4.5
4.6
4.7

67
68
.
68
68
69

Air Pollution
Water Pollution
Flora and Fauna destruction
Fire Hazard
Occupational Accidents, Injuries and Diseases

CHAPTER 5 AUDITIG OF EXISTIG EVIROMETAL
FACILITIES AD PRACTICES

70

5.1
5.2
.
5.7
5.8

70
70
.
74
75

Prevention and Mitigation of Air Pollution
Prevention and Mitigation of Water Pollution
Pipeline Protection and Security
Waste Management and Disposal

CHAPTER 6 ASSESSMET OF CURRET EVIROMETAL
IMPACTS OF THE DEPOTS

76

6.1 Ambient Air Quality
6.2 Water Quality
6.3 Soil Type and Quality
6.4 Noise Level

76
76
78
80

CHAPTER 7 THE BOST EVIROMETAL POLICY

82

7.1
7.2

82
83

Policy Statement
Specific Objectives

CHAPTER 8 THE BOST EVIROMETAL MAAGEMET PLA

85

8.1 Objectives
8.2 Against Air Pollution
8.8 Bulk Oil Spill Contingency Plan
8.9 Big Fire Contingency Plan
8.10 Decommissioning Plan

85
85
94
97
101

27

CHAPTER 9 COCLUSIOS

102

REFERECES

104

APPEDICES

108

APPENDIX A LIST OF UNDERTAKINGS REQUIRING REGISTRATION
APPENDIX B LIST OF UNDERTAKINGS FOR WHICH EIA IS MANDATORY
M
APPENDIX E RESULTS OF SOIL SAMPLE ANALYSES AT BOST DEPOTS
APPENDIX F BOUNDARY NOISE LEVELS AT BOST DEPOTS

109
118
M
136
138

28

APPEDIX C
SPECIME LIST OF FIGURES

LIST OF FIGURES
Figure or Fig.
1.1
2.1
2.2
3.1
.
.
3.6
3.7
3.8

Title
Map of Ghana Showing Locations of BOST Depots
Context of Environmental Assessment in Project Development
The EIA Procedure in Ghana
Site Plan of Accra Plains Depot: Installations and Facilities

Site Plan of Kumasi Depot: Installations and Facilities
Site Plan of Buipe Depot: Installations and Facilities
Site Plan of Bolgatanga Depot: Installations and Facilities

29

Page
2
37
39
50
.
.
61
63
65

APPEDIX D
SPECIME LIST OF TABLES

LIST OF TABLES
Table
2.1
2.2
.
.
6.3
6.4

Title
Typical Impacts of Activities on Flora and Fauna
Illustrative Types of Social Impacts

Summary of Soil Sample Analyses at BOST Depots
Summary of Noise Levels at BOST Depots

30

Page
31
34
.
.
80
81

APPEDIX E
SPECIME LIST OF SYMBOLS
LIST OF SYMBOLS

Avogadro constant
Boltzmann constant
Elementary charge (charge on proton)
Faraday constant
Gravitational constant
Mass of electron
Molar gas constant
Planck constant
.
.
.
.

L
K
e
F
g
m
R
h
.
.
.
.

31

APPEDIX F
ITERATIOAL SYSTEM OF UITS (SI UITS)
Quality

Unit

Symbol

Length

millimetre (0.001 m)
centimetre (0.01 m)
metre
kilometre (1000 m)

mm
cm
m
km

Area

square centimetre
square metre
hectare

cm2
m2
ha

Volume

cubic centimetre
cubic metre

cm3
m3

Capacity

millilitre (0.001 I)
litre

mI
I

Mass

gramme (0.001 kg)
kilogramme
tonne (1000 kg)

g
kg
t

Density
Time

kilogramme per cubic metre
second
minute (60 s)
hour (3600 s)
day (86400 s)

kg/m3
s
min
h
d

Speed, Velocity

metre per second
kilometre per second

m/s
km/s

Plane angle

radian

rad

Solid angle

steradian

sr

Frequency

hertz

Hz

Force

newton

N

Pressure

pascal

Pa

Energy, work, quantity of heat

joule

j

Electric current

ampere

A

32

APPEDIX F (Cont’d)

Quality

Unit

Symbol

Power, energy flux

watt
kilowatt

W
kW

Electric charge

coulomb

C

Electric potential

volt

V

Electric resistance

ohm

Ω

Electric conductance

siemens

S

Electric capacitance

farad

F

Magnetic flux

weber

Wb

Magnetic flux density

tesla

T

Inductance

henry

H

Luminous flux

lumen

Im

Illuminance

lux

Ix

Luminous intensity

candela

cd

Iuminance

candela per square metre

cd/m2

Thermodynamic temp. (T)

kelvin

K

Temperature (t)

degree Celsius

o

Amount of substance

mole

mol

Concentration

mole per cubic metre

mol/m3

33

C

APPEDIX G
SPECIME PAGE LAYOUT

2.54 cm or 1″

CHAPTER 1
ITRODUCTIO

1.1 Statement of Definition

3.02
cm
or
1.2″

2.54
cm
or
1″

2.54 cm or 1″

34

